buddy i have been looking at a lot of
pitches from founders over the last week
or two
and some of them truly are amazing some
of them just leap off the page
and you just want to meet with that
founder right then and there
but typically you see a bell-shaped
distribution a handful of pitches
really leap off the page a bunch are are
terrible are simply terrible
and most are in the middle most are have
something interesting
there's some hint there's something in
the email in the subject line in the
deck that's interesting
but it's not as interesting as it could
be and i want to talk about that because
there's no reason if you're pitching
investors
that your pitch should be in the middle
of the bell curve it should be as good
as it possibly can be
and i wanted to review 16 rookiers that
i see
founders make again and again when
pitching investors where there's no need
no need to make these mistakes and if
you fix these mistakes if you don't make
them
you're going to go up that distribution
you're going to be in that top 10
percent of pitches
where folks really want to meet with you
the first one
it's really a combination of two points
which is that cold emails work but they
have to be awesome
and we recently did the new new venture
at saster
um a little while ago we had some top
feces uh
aileen lee from cowboy keith roboy david
sachs
kristoff jantz um uh the the forbes
midas list uh three of the top vcs in
the world they all came
and shared their learnings and you can
see them on on youtube on
nunuventure.com
um and what was interesting is the the
ones that i interviewed the top vcs that
i talked to
said they all read almost all their
inbound emails and this is contrary to
many devices you get on the internet
where you need a warm intro
you need to know the right people you
need to have gone to stanford or being
in the right accelerate and those things
there's no question that helps
uh fair or not discriminatory or not
having social proof having proof that
you might be great helps um
going to stanford and harvard helps
graduating from out of y commenter helps
but
the best vcs read their cold emails so
so
so you're armed with that you know that
actually you can inbound
to a top vc at least cvcs at least early
stage vcs and they will probably read it
so make it awesome folks it's a sales
pitch
folks don't want to hear um a one-line
email about how you're better than zoom
no explain it
make that subject line pop make the make
every part of your pitch
amazing have the email subject line be
so awesome
folks would want to um invest just off
the subject line make the body of the
email
incredible incredible share your best
metrics why you're going to win why the
team is great why your vision is perfect
distill it so that someone might invest
just based on that email and then if and
then attach a deck
and make that deck as awesome as it can
be don't have a teaser deck
don't throw off some random statistics
about the market
explain why someone should buy stock
from you fundraising is
selling stock it is a specialized
version of sales
but it is sales no doubt so make the
world's best email possible
and if you look below i will share a
link to
two emails that i read um called the
emails and those companies are now worth
literally
literally billions of dollars these were
pure cold emails to me that i funded for
millions
for companies that are now worth
billions it does happen does it happen
every day no but
nothing happens every day but every year
unicorns multiple unicorns and sass are
founded and every year there's at least
one deck of corn
and investors are looking for them and
seed stage investors can't meet everyone
they can't do everything from
referrals and they will read the best
email possible so make it awesome
otherwise you're doing yourself a
disservice point number two
be super straight with answers remember
especially early stage investors
especially seed stage investors and
angels and the like they know
they know you don't know everything they
know you don't have 10 million in
revenue and 10
000 customers so just answer the
question
how much money are you raising how many
customers do you have
what's your churn rate what's your mps
what's working well what isn't why do
you win deals that's the most important
thing founders just answer why do you
win deals why are you 10x better
that should also be in your pitch why
are you 10x better don't be kg the best
founders
i can tell you are not kg and i know
it's hard i know
we haven't many of us haven't done it
before i know it can be intimidating you
can be insecure but this is your job
you're the ceo be honest
and if you don't know the answer just
say that i don't know the answer
and if you should know the answer and
don't know the answer it's okay to say
that too listen you should say
i should know that answer i've been in
this space for a decade but i don't i'll
get back to you on it but it's a great
question i should know the answer
look if you if you say that to every
single question it's it's a fail
but you can say it once or twice it's
okay to know eight out of ten of the
answers even in your industry seven out
of the ten
be honest but if you're caging no one
will believe that you're going to build
a unicorn
mistake number three and this happens
more often later in the process
and more often in in-person meetings
than zooms these days but it still
happens all the time
don't bring the wrong people with you
and don't put them in your slide deck
either
advisors are great mentors are great
angels are great
but they're not your team do not drag
your advisor someone your pain shares
for to help you raise money
to the investor pitch a few folks will
challenge this but the reality is
investors want to meet the founders
and particularly the ceo but the
founders that's who they're betting in
it's usually at least 50 percent of the
bet always and especially early stage so
don't bring people who aren't part of
the long-term team don't bring people
who aren't writing code who aren't
making decisions who aren't talking to
customers
they're just a flag for someone that is
insecure and again
we're all insecure in this process but
you don't need flags that say
you're not going the distance so don't
bring don't bring folks with you that
aren't founders to meetings
um next point and i know this sounds
simple and i actually know you'll hear
contrary advice from
incubators and accelerators but you'll
you'll see most of the best
investors that are live with on twitter
agree with me which is
send the deck send the deck ahead of
time
send it quickly and send all of it
remember
you're in sales or at least in
fundraising someone's on sales now later
when you build the hottest unicorn when
you build the next
zoom and slack and twilio and datadog
when it's later stage
you will build a data room and you will
put all your documents in there and your
financial statements which may even be
audited then
and all your cohort data and everything
and you will allow 20 or 30 investors a
week two weeks to log into a carefully
constructed data room
that's password protected review the
data and make an offer make a bid you
may be collecting
term sheets 2 5 10 or more when you're
the hottest late stage company but that
is
rarely it is rarely the way it works
early
in late stage often the investors are in
sales but if you're in sales if you're
the founder if you're the ceo
in sales make it easy on them this is
true of any sale so send the deck
don't send a teaser deck don't send a
doc send or a password protected deck
look it's nice to have the doc send it's
nice to have all the data
and see who's looking at what of course
it's fascinating but don't do it
don't do it if you want to embed a mixed
max link that's a much better way to do
it because it can silently track who's
doing what but don't create
gates many investors will not read a doc
send and more importantly if you don't
send the deck just send the deck
they may not follow up they may not ask
for it they may move on
many of the top investors have hundreds
of pitches in their inbox and they're
looking for the ones that stand out
but if you don't send your best assets
you're just decreasing the odds you get
funded
um next point and this is a rookie error
and i see it all the time and it
shouldn't happen but i see it all the
time from super smart people
um you have to diligence your investors
you have to research them
yes deep down you can basically send the
same email
and the same deck to everybody but think
about reaching out to a top customer
treat an investor like 100k or a million
dollar deal if you want a million
dollars from them
treat them like a million dollar
customer they deserve apm
they deserve a hand-crafted email not uh
a cadence not an email that doesn't even
recognize them at least go on the
website spend
15 minutes and look at the deals sheer
he did look at some of their other
portfolio
see if there are some sort of ties to
what you're doing they don't need to be
the same
but are they does this other does this
vc do sas do they do b2b do they do
marketplaces do they do b2d what type of
deals do they do
how is your company at least vaguely
similar to an investment they have to
done it doesn't have to be the same and
vcs don't want to make competitive
investments
but is the deal size similar is the type
of vertical similars the type of buyer
is that is the type of uh
non-obviousness
uh similar just make a personal
connection and the best way to do it
with vc
is with a portfolio company they love
because portfolio companies are like
vc's
kids sort of um they love to talk about
the they love to talk about especially a
successful one i mean if
vc has a decacorn in her portfolio
she'll never stop
she he will never stop talking about it
so compare how your startup was like
that data dog or twilio or workday or
zoom or whatever it was in the early
days
show that connection and there's a ten
times higher chance you'll make a
connection and worse when you don't do
it
when it's clear that email is just going
to 40 people
the best vcs have too many and they just
they don't follow up so you have to
personalize and you have to do your your
diligence and abm and get to know those
vcs
next one um you do need to educate most
investors on your space most of them
will not really understand what you're
doing and why you're doing it and how it
works but not too much
don't waste time don't sway slides in
your deck don't waste space in your
email
educating vc's too much in industry
think about two slides
and two lines and two sentences is
enough
okay if i if a vc's never done an
investment even remotely similar they
probably won't
again but summarize the industry in two
sentences why
is the content marketing industry
changing why is travel changing
why is um application performance
management changing why
are whatever changing just summarize it
in two sentences summarize it
ideally in one slide but two max we do
not need to hear the history of your
industry since the 17th century
since the days of mainframes it's too
much it is
accidentally condescending vcs at least
like to think they understand
industries even when they don't so
forget the decades of history forget
uh the workplace of the future just
summarize quickly
what's changed and why you matter okay
the next two are
are a bit of a goldilocks but you need
to be careful about going in too strong
with vcs
but also going in two weeks so so let me
explain
if you go in super strong and i and
people get this advice
uh and act as if you have 10 offers that
you're the hottest
startup out there if it's true and
that's your thing
and you like to go on a little a little
heavy do it by all means going strong
if you have two term sheets on terms you
like you can be a little aggressive on
the third you can say i need an offer by
friday by tomorrow by this afternoon
but i see too many founders sort of fake
it and maybe they're nervous and maybe
they haven't done it before maybe they
got bad advice on youtube or on the
internet
but don't go in too strong be confident
of what you have
be confident about your future be
confident about your financial model
uh be confident about your pitch but
don't put investors under
excessive pressure to write a check
or they may just walk for that reason by
the same token this is tricky
this is tricky don't go in two week
um and what do i mean by two week two
week doesn't mean that if i don't get
money from you tomorrow
you're out what two week means is too
weak about your startup
and i'll tell you the number one thing
that i hear that to me is always a huge
flag which is
i just need money to blank i need money
to hire a sales team i need money to
grow
the worst one is to grow faster like i'm
not growing so great today
but if i had money i'd hire a magical
sales person off the internet and i
would grow faster
no um that makes you sound too weak
winners always find a way to win
and the truth is investors really want
to put money into startups that don't
need it now
it rarely becomes true until the very
late stage but think about that idea
think about
presenting truthfully a message where
you don't need this money you just
want it to win even bigger that should
be your mantra not
i can only win if i have your money even
if it's true it's
it's too wishy-washy in next point and
we alluded above
don't ask for coffee to share notes
there is um there's some debate
over on the internet and this and it may
be it was even more a valid debate
before covet 19.
but when you should you ask for advice
when you want money or ask for money
when you want advice i sort of
understand that
i don't know the exact answer but i
think the best thing is being direct if
you want money tell
an investor you want to raise money
you're raising money so they know
folks time is limited just let them know
don't ask for coffee to share notes
don't ask in a one-line email to catch
up
make that email amazing say i'm raising
a hundred thousand two hundred thousand
a million two million ten million a
hundred million and here's exactly why
here's exactly why you should fund me um
don't ask for coffee
people that are that that have winners
in their portfolio folks that are
already managing 10 15
20 investments they do not have time for
coffee and the folks that have time for
coffee
probably don't have time to fund you not
literally true there are exceptions and
there may be folks that want to help you
in particular
but generally no one has time for coffee
that has a checkbook
next one is like too too much
information about founder relationships
it is great to hear that founders have a
history together it is great to hear
that you worked at airbnb together or
salesforce together
uh or wherever together but hearing that
you went to elementary school together
how does that tell me you're gonna build
a unicorn it doesn't
um make sure my point is making sure
when you describe the connections to the
founders that you do it honestly
you're truthful about it but you do it
in such a way that is that is compelling
that
adds value to the investment the fact
you two were the best engineers that
knew each other at your last startup or
even in grad school or
heck even in high school i guess that's
compelling but don't go far too far back
in time i don't
really care that you guys played soccer
together when you were kids
um and it it undermines some of the
maturity in the investment
um next one answer the questions
answer the questions um i know a lot of
folks like to say i'll get there later
in the presentation
um or maybe even tell an investor they
don't quite understand the industry
don't do that
don't do that vcs investors are
thoughtful why they ask the questions
you may think the question is stupid it
may even be stupid but there's a reason
they ask
ask it sometimes it is to hear
themselves talk but sometimes it's that
they just met with a startup that was
kind of different maybe not competitive
not in the same space
but roughly different and something
stuck in their head from that meeting
and they want to hear what you think
about it
um don't in my advice and some will
disagree don't say you'll get to that
later don't say
answer the vc's question even if they
want to jump around the deck jump around
the conversation even the conversation
is not linear in the way you like even
if your pitch is interrupted do it
if a vc wants to see a demo up front do
the demo front don't make her
or him wait do let people learn
different ways i've learned this from
sasha i've learned it from investing for
saster
some folks learn from podcasts some
folks learn from events some folks learn
from blog posts some folks learn from
core answers
or twitter or tweets or linkedin posts
we have so many different types of media
faster and different people learn
different ways it's true investors too
so when they interrupt i know it can be
annoying but answer their questions
because it's probably the way they learn
related to this speak with data if it's
there
know your data know your metrics know
your churn rate know your revenue growth
rate know the average of your growth
rate the last few months
no if even if you're pre-revenue know
your plan
uh linda bob jay uh jane
what's your revenue going to be at the
end of this year how many customers will
you have you have to know these numbers
you have to know your model cold
it does not have to be perfect or
perfectly accurate but you need to speak
with data
when you can related to that make sure
you know what the data the stories
underneath the data
okay great you have 14 customers how how
did you find those 14 customers
um how did you close that big customer i
don't know
if you can't answer those questions it's
close to the kiss of death so speak with
data and know the stories behind that
data
so you are the master of wherever your
company is one customer 10 customers a
thousand you should be the master
of how you got there and what the
underlying both
quantitative and qualitative factors are
next one uh claiming things that aren't
quite true
what i mean in particular there's a lot
of things be scrupulously true
speak positively but most importantly
don't claim things like pilots
don't claim things like unpaid users
don't claim things like free users are
customers or revenue that aren't claim
they are what they are if half your
revenue is from pilots then just say
that
say i have four customers that are
paying four that are paying but pilots
it's it's they're short pilots and four
unpaid pilots okay i get it
for paying for paid pilots for unpaid
pilots but don't say you have 12
customers
i got to tell you most founders do this
and it does them a disservice it
instantly undermines your credibility
okay you have 12 because imagine the
narrative oh you have 12 customers
uh jay that's great okay 12 customers
but how does that roll up in your
revenue well actually only
eight are paying only eight of your so
are they customers only customers are
paying
oh but only four but four of them are
pilots that don't start till next month
it doesn't add up
don't exaggerate your revenue just it's
early just speak
the truth speak the truth especially
about about everything
but especially about your customer data
be clear what a user is what a pilot is
what an unpaid pilot is
a customer customer someone that gives
you real money
right now for your product and just be
true about the rest of it you again you
can stack it i have
these this many customers this many
pilots this many unpaid free users
that's fine
they're all good they have different
values customers count more than pilots
and pilots count more than free trials
but they all have value so just share it
and related to that
don't hide anything it's the flip side
don't hide anything whatever the bad
news is in the fundraising
maybe you can get away with hiding some
of it but most of it will come back to
bite you
most of it truly would so whatever the
bad news is at least bring it out by the
second meeting
okay last two of these 16 mistakes i
heard um and this this
this this penultimate one i i hear it
again and again and i know it's a sign
of nervousness sometimes
um and that's okay but oftentimes it's a
sign of
not a great founder which is not
understanding the competitive landscape
you have to understand the competitive
landscape the best
founders are thinking all the time
about their market the the big
competitors if you compete with zoom
they know everything about zoom they
know every single thing about zoom
they also know everything about the new
zoom competitor that just launched on
product hunt that's even smaller than
them
they know their landscape cold it's not
necessarily because they obsess about
competition some of us obsess more some
of us obsess less
but they know you learn from the
competition it's one of the best ways we
learn
almost no software categories are new
we're iterating on old categories zoom
is not the first web conferencing
salesforce is not
the first crm again and again and again
very few categories are new so we have
to learn from the competition and the
best
founders know their competition cold and
related that they don't belittle the
competition you should know what they're
good at
um congrat you know be flattering for
what they're good at and and do it
truthfully don't make it a throwaway
line say yeah you know what
everything about zoom is awesome this is
one of the most iconic cloud companies
of our lifetimes
having said that zoom's focus is not on
healthcare
okay i don't even know if that's true
but if you just said that to me that's a
great way to position yourself in the
landscape zoom's great at everything
but they don't focus on healthcare
zoom's great on everything but they
don't focus on thousand plus seat deals
whatever it is that makes sense and that
shows you know your landscape
cold and it also shows you're respectful
i didn't denigrate zoom i didn't say
their technology is terrible the audio
is awful
i didn't mock them in great founders
never do it great founders respect the
ones that came before them even if
they're going to kill them in the
marketplace
they know it's not going to happen
overnight and they know that
even if the technology is terrible which
it rarely is customers may not care
you know salesforce is over 20 years old
salesforce launched in the 9 late 90s i
mean this is a 20 something year old
piece of software
i meet with a lot of founders that poke
at salesforce's psover they don't get it
customers love salesforce salesforce
just closed its largest
nine figure deal ever that's because
customers love it so the best founders
are very respectful the competition and
they know it cold
and here's my last tip and it goes back
to the first one about making that email
perfect about making the subject line
perfect in the email about making the
email body perfect about
making the deck perfect about making it
the best sales pitch
possible assuming you've gotten
anybody's attention
here's my final exercise and it always
works when you put together
a deck an investor deck for potential
investors
make sure the first slide sells the deal
now you could have a title slide but i
mean the first the second slide
the first substantive slide whether you
need five bullet points or four or maybe
it's too texty and you need ten which of
course we all hate
but assume that the whole deal the whole
value proposition can be subsumed into
one site of course it can
it you you are just an investment
property at the end of the day
summarize it hi our name is you know
goom doom vloom whatever it is the next
zoom we have
21 customers our acv is 1100 we're going
a month we have four co-founders um
we've raised half a million dollars to
date and we want to grow 400
this year uh we spent zero dollars on
marketing
that's pretty cool right there okay that
slide almost
literally sells the company try it
you're gonna say you can't do it but if
you spend an hour and then you put it
aside and you come back the next day and
you come back later you're gonna find
you can distill
the entire reason to invest your company
in that first slide and then slides two
through twenty two through forty
hopefully it's it's not too long
they're really just back up to explain
those bullet points and why folks should
involve but
sell it all on one slide force yourself
to do it not go for coffees and
you're gonna push yourself instead of
being in the middle of that bell curve
with a great startup
you're going to be a great startup with
a great pitch that's going to
dramatically increase the odds
that you get funded even if it's off a
cold email
oh my gosh
you